_Please ensure that [pre-requisites](prerequisites-for-building.md) are installed for a successful build of the repo._

_Note_:

* Instructions below assume C:\corert is the repo root.
* Build the repo using build.cmd. Binaries are binplaced to ```<repo_root>\bin\Product\<OS>.<arch>.<Config>```

### JIT CodeGen

1. Open c:\corert\src\ILCompiler\ILCompiler.sln in VS

  - Set "desktop" project in solution explorer as your startup project

  - Set startup command line to:
`c:\corert\src\ILCompiler\repro\bin\Debug\repro.exe -r c:\corert\bin\Product\Windows_NT.x64.Debug\System.Private.CoreLib.dll -r <repo_root>\bin\tests\package\toolchain.<OS>-<Arch>.Microsoft.DotNet.AppDep.1.0.1-prerelease\*.dll -out c:\corert\src\ILCompiler\reproNative\repro.obj`

  - Copy ryujit.dll from `<repo_root>\bin\tests\package\toolchain.<OS>-<Arch>.Microsoft.DotNet.RyuJIT.*` to `c:\corert\src\ILCompiler\desktop\bin\Debug`
  - Copy objectwriter.dll from `<repo_root>\bin\tests\package\toolchain.<OS>-<Arch>.Microsoft.DotNet.ObjectWriter.*` to `c:\corert\src\ILCompiler\desktop\bin\Debug`
  - Build & run using **F5**
    - This will run the compiler. The output is c:\corert\src\ILCompiler\reproNative\repro.obj file.

  - The repro project has a dummy program that you can modify for ad-hoc testing

  - To suppress spew from NuGet during the build, go to NuGet Package Manager in Options, and uncheck `Allow NuGet to download missing packages`.

2. Open C:\corert\src\ILCompiler\reproNative\reproNative.vcxproj

  - Set breakpoint at ```__managed__Main``` in main.cpp
  - Build & run using **F5**
    - Once you hit the breakpoint, go to disassembly and step into - you are looking at the code generated by RyuJIT


### CPP CodeGen

1. Open c:\corert\src\ILCompiler\ILCompiler.sln in VS

  - Set "desktop" project in solution explorer as your startup project

  - Set startup command line to:
`c:\corert\src\ILCompiler\repro\bin\Debug\repro.exe -r c:\corert\bin\Product\Windows_NT.x64.Debug\System.Private.CoreLib.dll -r <repo_root>\bin\tests\package\toolchain.<OS>-<Arch>.Microsoft.DotNet.AppDep.1.0.1-prerelease\*.dll -out C:\corert\src\ILCompiler\reproNative\repro.cpp -cpp`

    - `-nolinenumbers` command line option can be used to suppress generation of line number mappings in C++ files - useful for debugging

  - Build & run using **F5**
    - This will run the compiler. The output is C:\corert\src\ILCompiler\reproNative\repro.cpp file.

  - The repro project has a dummy program that you can modify for ad-hoc testing

2. Open C:\corert\src\ILCompiler\reproNative\reproNativeCpp.vcxproj

  - Set breakpoint at repro::Program::Main in main.cpp
  - Build, run & step through as with any other C++ program